# Comprehensive OCR System for Telugu Language
## The Banti Framework

This framework relies on the ability of a segmentation algorithm to break the
text in to glyphs. Hence it can be extended to other scripts with well 
seperated images like Malayalam, Oriya, Tamil, Kannada, Thai etc.

# Features
+ Opens box files generated by banti (segmentation program)
+ Passes them to a neural network trained by @theanet
+ n-gram modelling of the language
+ Ability to stich broken glyphs (using the language model).

# Dependencies
1. Python3
1. Numpy, Scipy, Nose etc.
1. [Theano](https://github.com/Theano/Theano)
1. [banti segmenter](github.com/rakeshvar/banti)
1. [Theanet](github.com/rakeshvar/theanet)

# Installation Instructions

1. Install python3 (you might already have it). Just type 'which python3' and
 check. Make sure you also have pip3 (Python3.4 comes with that, 
 python3.3 and older need additional installation of pip3)

1. Install [theano] after installing its dependencies. Here are the [General]
(http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install.html) and  the 
[Ubuntu-specific](http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install_ubuntu.html#install-ubuntu) instructions. 
(You just need to install numpy, scipy, nose etc.)

1. Install [Theanet](github.com/rakeshvar/theanet) by running the setup.py

1. Clone [telugu_ocr_banti](github.com/rakeshvar/telugu_ocr_banti).

1. Set the following theano flag(s). I just put the following in my .bashrc 
file.

```sh
export THEANO_FLAGS='floatX=float32'
```

1. Get the required files to load the neural network and the ngram library.

```sh
# change to cloned project directory
mkdir library
wget http://stanford.edu/~rakesha/banti/library/4hidaux_252611_01.pkl -O library/nn.pkl
wget http://stanford.edu/~rakesha/banti/library/mega.123.pkl -P library/
```

1. Run the ocr program 

```sh
python3 ocr.py sample_images/praasa.box 
# Run without arguments to see complete list of available arguments.
```
1. To run on your own images.

Note that ```ocr.py``` accepts only images in the ```.box``` format. These 
files are genereated by [banti segmenter](github.com/rakeshvar/banti). You 
can install that to genereate box files from your own tiff files.
